Best security practices for remote working

The Covid episode has constrained numerous office workers to stay at home. This is what you have to remember with the goal that both you and the organization remain secured.

1.Use Multi-Factor Authentication

Multi Factor Authentication is a viable method to give upgraded security.MFA makes different layers of security to help increment the certainty that the client mentioning access is really who they guarantee to be.

2.Introduce antivirus in gadgets:

The advantage of using anti-virus on your PC is that it will keep you from getting infections, for example, trojans, malware and spyware.Make sure that your device is equipped with an antivirus

3.Use strong passwords

Always use strong passwords for devices and WiFi.It is recommended to be a combination of uppercase and lowercase letters, symbols and numbers.Never use common passwords like ‘password’, ‘1234’ or words like ‘qwerty’

4.Connect to WiFi networks through VPN

There are several benefits of connecting to WiFi networks through a Virtual Private Network(VPN).When data is send over VPN, it is in encrypted format,so that even if the attacker gets access to data, he will not be able to use it.

5.Update softwares and programs regularly

Keep your softwares and programs updated.In the most recent versions of softwares, vulnerabilities are usually fixed. So it’s imperative to routinely update everything introduced on any gadget that you use for work purposes.

6.Lock your device when not in use

Make it a practise to lock your device when you are moving away.Leaving your device unattended can cause serious security breaches

7. Beaware of phishing emails

Never click or open suspicious emails. Cyber criminals  tries to trick you to share personal information online. Try not to click any links or give individual data until you’ve affirmed the email is genuine.

8.Store sensitive files securely

When you have to store sensitive files,make sure that your file is password protected.Be vigilant, when you are transferring confidential files over the internet.

Apart from all these keep in mind that ‘Technology isn’t a one stop solution’.Thus always work together with technology and protect your data.
