ENCODED MESSAGE? IT’S TIME FOR MEANING MAKING (Rethink)


We communicate to share ideas, expressions, thoughts, understanding, and beliefs with human beings. A human process to share and receive information using verbal and non-verbal communication. Depending on the proximity, an individual encodes a message to disseminate closely or publicly.

In communication, the sender is the initiator of a message who encodes it with his understanding and passes it through a channel to the receiver. The receiver is the decoder of the coded information. We indulge in several types of communication throughout the day. Categorization can be intrapersonal communication, interpersonal communication, group communication, and public communication.

The basics of sharing information remains the same in different formats of communication. In Intrapersonal communication, the individual is in charge to communicate within oneself. On the contrary, the presence of two or more receivers in involved in other formats of communication.

The variation of meaning-making of encoded message is prominent with the increasing numbers of receivers. Now the point is how do we interpret a message? Do we interpret according to the source or the way we want to understand? Futher, we wonder who is in charge sending information?

David Berlo says “Communication does not consist of the transmission of meaning. Meanings are not transmitted or transferrable. Only messages are transmitted and meanings are not in the message, they are in the message users.”


Berlo’s SMCR Model of Communication
The exiting model is suitable to understand the concept of linear communication techniques. The source (encoder) originates the message. The message is the reflection of his attitudes, knowledge, social system, and culture. These influential factors play a crucial role while encoding a message. The message can be content, piece of advice, structure, code or any non-verbal way to express the mind. The model is focused on the face to face communication where the sensory organs are the channels to absorb the encoded content. At the end of the message transmission, the receiver decodes the message with his knowledge, attitude, social system, and culture.

The scenario can be analyzed well in day to day activities. And example is based on one-way communication where there is no scope for feedback. communication We do engage several conversations throughout the day, the content of the conversation varies depends on the context. But the formation, of the message, is all about the sender’s ability, how well the individual form the message. The receiver also tries to understand the message but the meaning which is generated by the person shows the analytical capability of the individual mind.
