Introduction

Intellectual Property Rights are the rights of the people over the outcomes of the creativity of their mind same as they own physical property. Intellectual Property can be Patent, Trademark, Copyright, and designs.  
What is a Trademark?

Trademark is an identifiable symbol, phrase, name, mark or an expression which legally distinguishes a specific product or a service from all the other products.  
Indian Law In consistency with TRIPs
Trade Related Intellectual Property provides the elementary framework for safeguarding Intellectual Property. Every country who is an associate of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) should consist of the provisions of TRIPs agreement in their domestic Intellectual Property Rights.
India is also a signatory to the TRIPs agreement, which makes it mandatory for it to form its laws in compliance with the laid guidelines by TRIPs.
The Trade and Merchandise Act 1958 was replaced by the Act of 1999 and was in compliance to the guidelines laid down by the TRIPs. The objective of The Trade and Merchandise Act 1999 is to provide protection to the user of the trademark, propose conditions on acquisition and also remedies for implementation of trademark rights.
WIPO
World Intellectual Property Organisation was established in 1967 to encourage the protection of intellectual property and to inspire creativity across the world. 
In 1996 the WTO and WIPO together signed a cooperation agreement for the implementation of the TRIPs Agreement.
The International Conference for protection of Traditional Knowledge was organised by WIPO in cooperation with the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research in India. A project was started by India for the formation of a Traditional Knowledge Digital Library.
Geographical Indication (GI)
One of the matters that comes under the WTO’s TRIPs is Geographical Indication. GI is a sign or name used on products that have precise geographic origin and have a reputation because of that origin. To function as a GI, a product should have originated from the given place. 
In Geographical Indication Right those who have rights can prevent the use of the product by the third party which does not follow the standards.
For example- Products like Darjeeling Tea (Darjeeling) are protected. Darjeeling tea producers can omit someone from using the term, “Darjeeling” in their tea if those are not produced in their tea gardens or not grown according to the standards laid down for the geographical indication in the code of practice. 
But, a GI does not allow the bearer to prevent someone from making a similar   product using the techniques laid down in the standards of the indication.
Trademark Infringement
The unauthorised use of a trademark can be considered to have been infringed by any other person than the registered user on the related goods or services for deceiving someone or by mistake.  
When an infringement happens, the owner of the trademark may file a lawsuit against the user of the similar mark for an infringement and may collect damages for this.
Toyota Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha vs M/S Prius Auto Industries Limited
In this case it was held that if the goodwill in India is not established by the plaintiff, no other subject really would need any further inspection to determine the amount of the plaintiff’s right in the action of passing off that it had brought against the defendants in the Delhi High Court. Subsequently, even if we are to differ with the view of the Division Bench of the High Court in accepting the defendant’s form of the origin of the mark ‘Prius’, the final conclusion of the Division Bench will, nonetheless, have to be continued. We cannot help but also to witness that in the present case the plaintiff’s tardy approach to the Courts has remained mysterious. Such delay cannot be allowed to work to the prejudice of the defendants who had kept on using its registered mark to market its goods during the extremely long period of silence maintained by the plaintiff. 

Yahoo!, Inc. v Akash Arora & Anr [1999 (19) PTC 201 (Del)]
This case till date is considered as a Landmark judgment in cybersquatting, in this, the Delhi High Court held that a domain name served the same function as a trademark and was therefore entitled to equal protection. As the domain names of the plaintiff ‘Yahoo!’ and defendant ‘Yahoo India!, were nearly matching and phonetically similar, there was very high risk that internet users would be confused and misled into believing that the domain names had a mutual foundation or a connection. The court further observed that the disclaimer used by the defendants was not sufficient because the nature of the Internet is such that use of a similar domain name cannot be remedied by a disclaimer, and that it did not matter that ‘yahoo’ is a vocabulary word. The name had acquired exclusivity and individuality and was associated with the plaintiff. 


